
Lua Score Library Documentation

--Overview--
This library was originally intended for use with the Pure Data environment. The
goal was to be able to load in a text file in some kind of programming language
that had a delay() function written into it, so the user of such a language
could write music directly in code. Because of how control flow works, it was
soon apparent that an add() function would be necessary as well in order to fork
functions off of the main score. In addition, for the greatest ease of
programming when it comes to details while composing, semi-dynamic variables
were implemented using lua's setfenv and a tree of metatables.

See individual help files for the rest of the documentation

--Implementation details---

There is a semi-complex system of environments here: first, Score is a basic
class:
Score
|
Score objects (created with Score.new())

The scheduler is a heap-based priority queue. Each element stores a function,
that function's environment, a coroutine that was called with the function, and
the time that the element is scheduled to call back into the score. Thus, add
and delay are implemented by adding the current time to the desired time to have
the event occur, and adding the event to the queue.

throughout this doc I will refer to scoreobject, which means the object that has
been created by Score.new()

Implementations of the Score class should define a function in the creating
function called scoreobject:clock_callback(time) that delays by time amount and
then calls scoreobject:callback(time) with the elapsed time. This function then
retrieves the next item from the queue and calls the coroutine with the correct
environment.

Score has a table inside it called ENV. this table is to hold general utility
functions that may be called from inside the loaded score.

Inside created score objects there are 2 more "environment" tables:
scoreobj.ENV for general functions, and scoreobj.loadENV.
this loadENV is for loading code into, so using Score.lua involves loading
chunks into scoreobj.loadENV, which inherits from scoreobj.ENV.

scoreobj:startfrom(f, time, bool, ...) takes a function to add to the queue with
arguments ..., a time to wait to call it, and a boolean value if it should
inherit the master musical environment values (which I haven't actually gotten
to yet).

However, there is a convenience function called scoreobj:start(time, ...) which
clears the queue and starts after time. It calls a function that has been loaded
into scoreobj.loadENV called main() with arguments ...

scoreobj:clear() clears loadENV of all loaded code.

Now, things called from startfrom() start with a default musical environment.
This environment has special reserved functions that can not be overwritten. It
also has musical variables such as root, scale, etc. that can be manipulated by
these functions. (see documentation). Every time a function is add()ed from the
score, a new environment is forked from the calling environment, inheriting any
definitions. However, whenever something is assigned in the new environment that
change will be local, and the calling environment will retain it's values. Note
that this only applies in the function that was added with the add() function;
any function that this function calls will still have the scope where it was
loaded (e.g.) scoreobj.loadENV

This is intended so that the code of the composition reflects musical ideas
structurally in the lexically-scoped format; anything added should inherit the
parents ideas, but be flexible to change. Note that if the parent's variables
are changed and have not been assigned to yet by the child, the child will still
inherit the values. It is only after the variables have been assigned to in the
child environment (specifically, after they are not nil) that the parent's
environment is no longer applicable for those variables.

Here is a crude diagram of the tree structure that is visible to code loaded in
loadENV and added with the add() function inside scoreobj.loadENV.main():

_G global environment (so user code can access global packages) note this can be
pretty unsafe if you don't look at code you run
|
Score.ENV table (in Score class)
|
scoreobj.ENV table (in a Score object)
|
scoreobj.loadENV table (user code should be loaded into here)
|
base musical environment, created with musenv.make() 
it is located at scoreobj.base This is the environment that is forked from when
startfrom and start are called.
|
new environment of loadENV.main(): this was changed from loadENV when main() was
called after it was inserted into the priority queue and 1 callback had occured,
setting the environment with setfenv().
|
environment that was added from inside main() when add() was called

If one were to call add() again from inside main(), the newly added function
would fork from main()