Documentation for musenv.lua:


musenv.make() creates a base envelope, additional environments are added to this
base environment by calling the envadd() method on this base environment.
This returns the new environment, which can itself be "forked" from by calling
environmentobj:envadd(). if the argument is true for both of these, then the
beat and measure counters are reset for the new environment.
When these environments are set as the environment for a function, the following
methods can be accessed without calling them in the table

bv(beatvalue) : this function receives a beat value in milliseconds and returns
the beat value in milliseconds. Also changes internal tempo variable

temp(intempo) : same, but receives a tempo value and sets the tempo and beats
per minute

setrt(pc) : receives pitch class and sets the root to be that pitch class

setsc(scalefunction) : receives function and assigns it internally to a variable
called scale. This function is meant to receive indices in and output semitones
(but doesn't really have to).

seto(octave) : set current octave, and a private variable called octavec

setmb(beats, reset) : set # of beats in a measure. Doesn't necessarily have to be an integer. If reset is true then if the current beat # in the measure is > the new number of beats per measure, it will be set to 0. Otherwise, the current beat # is the old beat # % new beats per measure

loc(measures, beats) : sets measures and beats, if provided. Also returns them

get(key) : get a private variable, which can be:
	scale
	root
	octave
	octavec (midi note that octave starts from c)
	tempo
	beatval - ms per beat
	mbeats - beats per measure
	beatn - current beat #
	measn - current measure #

fms(ms) : take measn and beatn forward an appropriate amount given a number of
milliseconds. this is done automatically inside the builtin delay function

penv(i, octave, add) : returns octavec + root + scale(i) + add.
add defaults to 0, octave sets octave and octavec for the environment.

envadd(bool, parent) : split a new environment from the current one, inheriting all of parent's variables, both private variables(the ones described above) and user variables. defaults to current if parent isn't present

parent: holds parent environment table
leaves: holds leaf (child) environmnent tables, indexed by the tables
	(this is mainly to keep track of inhereted variables)
deleteleaf(leaf): delete child environment from parent's reference